NP:: a decision problem, if a solution to this problem gives answer YES, then it can be verifiable
in polynomial time.

P:: A problem which can be solvable and verifiable in polynomial time.
    If I have a solution in polynomial time, then I can use to verify an answer to that problem in
    polynomial time. I give the same input to my solution, get its result then compare the answer
    provided to check if they match.

NP-Complete:: All problem in NP should be convertible in polynomial time to an NP-Complete problem.
              An answer "yes" to this problem can be verified in polynomial time.

              Every problem in NP-Complete can be reduced to any other problem in NP-Complete in polynomial time.


NP-Hard:
    - NP-Hard problems are not necessarily in NP themselves. That is, an "yes" to the problem may
      not verifiable in polynomial time.
    - All NP-Complete problems are in NP-Hard.
    - All NP problems can be convertible in polynomial to every NP-Hard problem.
      That is to say that a problem can be in NP-Hard only if all NP problems can be reduced in
      polynomial time to that problem.
    - An NP-Hard problem may not need to be in NP. That is, its solution "yes" to a problem may not
      be verifiable in polynomial time.
    - Not all NP-Hard problems can be directly converted to any other NP-Hard problem in polynomial time.


NP-Hard Problems and Verification
---------------------------------
   -  Not all NP-Hard problems can be verified in polynomial time. In fact, some NP-Hard problems
      are not even in NP.
   -  NP-Hard problems that can be verified in polynomial time are actually a subset called
       NP-Complete problems.


An NP-Complete problem has two key properties:
----------------------------------------------
   - It is in NP (nondeterministic polynomial time), which means its solutions can be verified in
      polynomial time by a deterministic Turing machine1

   - It is NP-Hard, meaning every problem in NP can be reduced to it in polynomial time.


 # Reference
  https://www.perplexity.ai/search/what-are-np-hard-problems-oJJTIITMQWujsOXNatFt6Q
